in this video I'd like to talk about how
to evaluate a hypothesis that has been
learned by your algorithm in later
videos we'll build on this to talk about
how to prevent the problems of
overfitting and underfitting as well
when we fit the parameters of our
learning algorithm we think about
choosing the parameters to minimize the
training error one might think that
getting a really low value of training
error might be a good thing though we've
already seen that just because the
hypothesis has low training error that
doesn't mean it's necessarily a good
hypothesis and we've already seen the
example of how a hypothesis can over fit
and therefore fail to generalize to new
examples that are not in the training
set so how do you tell if the hypothesis
might be overfitting
in this simple example we could plot the
hypothesis H of X and just see what's
going on but in general for problems
with more features than just one feature
for problems with a large number of
features like these it becomes hard or
maybe impossible to plot what the
hypothesis function looks like and so we
need some other way to evaluate a
hypothesis the standard way to evaluate
a learned hypothesis is as follows
suppose we have a data set like this
here I've just shown 10 training
examples but of course usually we may
have dozens or hundreds or maybe
thousands of training examples in order
to make sure we can evaluate our
hypothesis what we're going to do is
split the data we have into two portions
the first portion is going to be our
usual training set and the second
portion is going to be our test set and
a pretty typical split of this of all
the data we have into a training set and
test set might be around say a 70% 30%
slit with more of the data going to
and relatively less the test set and so
now if we have some data set we might
assign only say 70% of the data to be
our training set where here M is as
usual on number of training examples and
the remainder of our data might then be
assigned to become our test sets and
here I'm going to use the notation M
subscript test denote to denote the
number of test examples and so in
general this subscript test is going to
denote examples they come from my test
set so that x1 subscript test comma y1
subscript test is my first test example
which I guess in this example might be
this example over here
so a fairly typical procedure for
training and testing a learning
algorithm may be linear regression would
be to first learn the parameter vector
from the training data here the training
data is only that first you know 70% of
the data set finally one last detail
whereas here I've drawn des as though
the first 70% goes to the training set
and the last 30% to the test set if
there is any sort of ordering to the
data it actually better to send a random
70% of your data than the training set
and a random 30% of your data to the
test set so if your data were already
randomly sorted you could just take the
first 70% and last 30% but if your data
were not random the order may be better
to randomly shuffle or to randomly
reorder the examples in your training
set before you know sending the first
studies 70% of the training set and the
last 30% of the test set here then is a
fairly typical procedure for how you
will train and test a learning algorithm
maybe linear regression first you learn
the parameters theta from the training
set so you minimize the usual training
error objective J of theta where J of
theta here was defined using that 70% of
all the data you have says only the
training data and then you will compute
the test error and I'm going to denote
the test error as J subscript test and
so what you do is you take your
parameter theta that you've learned from
the training set and plug it in here and
compute your test set error which I'm
going to write as follows so this is
basically
the average square error has measured it
on your test set it's pretty much what
you'd expect so I've run every test
example through your hypothesis with
parameter theta and just measure the
squared error the your hypothesis has on
your M subscript test test examples and
of course this is the definition of the
test set error if we are using linear
regression and using this squared error
metric how about if we were doing a
classification problem and say using
logistic regression instead in that case
the procedure for training and testing
say logistic regression is pretty
similar first we will learn the
parameters from the training data that
first 70% of the data and then they will
compute the test error as follows is the
same objective function as we always use
for logistic regression except that now
is defined using our M subscript test
test examples while this definition of
the test set error J subscript test is
perfectly reasonable sometimes there's
an alternative test set metric that
might be easier to interpret and that's
the miss classification error it's also
called the zero one miss classification
error with zero one denoting that you
either get an example right or you get
an example wrong here's what I mean let
me define the error of a prediction that
is H of X and given the label Y as equal
to one if my hypothesis outputs a value
greater than equal to five and Y is
equal to zero
or
if my hypothesis outputs a value less
than 0.5 and y is equal to 1 right so
both of these cases basically correspond
to if your hypothesis mislabeled the
example assuming you threshold it at 0.5
so either thought it was more likely to
be 1 but there was actually zero or your
hypothesis thought that was more likely
with zero but that Labour was actually 1
and otherwise we define this error
function to be 0 if only you know
hypothesis basically classified example
Y correctly we could then define the
test error using the misclassification
error metric to be one of M tests of sum
from I equals 1 to M subscript test of
the error of each of my tests comma Y
and so that's just some my way of
writing out that this is exactly the
fraction of the examples in my test set
that my hypothesis has mislabeled and so
that's the definition of the test set
error using the misclassification error
or the zero one misclassification error
metric so that's the standard technique
for evaluating how good a learn
hypothesis in the next video we'll adapt
these ideas to helping us do things like
choose what features like degree of
polynomial to use with a learning
algorithm or choose the regularization
parameter for learning alpha